# Tools-For-OpenFOAM-Automation
## snappyHexMesh_Optimizer.py

As all Foamers know, OpenFOAM is top-tier CFD software. Nevertheless, 'ease-of-use' or even 'convenience' are words that normally do not come to mind when we speak about OpenFOAM. There are tools like pyFOAM that may achieve similar control over openFOAM, however, I wanted to do this on my own.
First of all, a good mesh is the most important input to OF. My personal mesher of choice is snappyHexMesh. There has been a lot said about sHM, I won't add to that. My experiences with it are mixed, but there is no open-source mesher that can handle multiregion or AMI better. So I have to deal with it. The problems I have with it are mostly with big meshes (5M+ cells) and the waiting time. Even with MPI and 32 cores, a waiting time of 1h+ is too long if you can't be sure your resulting mesh works. And that's the main problem with sHM: you never really can be with AMI because SHM is kind of stochastic (maybe there's a better word for it, IDK) regarding its results. What do I mean by that? Even with IDENTICAL snappyHexMeshDict, a second meshing run does not lead to exactly the same result. There are variations in the mesh, they are only 'kind of' the same. They even have different checkMesh results, that should tell you something. Normally, when meshing a new geometry, I'd start with some default parameters, look at checkMesh results and also look at the snappyHexMEsh.log. Unfortunately, checkMesh can't do it all. The most important value (in my opinion at leat) checkMesh cannot deliver us is the layerPercentage (not an official OF-name). These values, if you layer more than one patch, can only be found in sHM.log. So, therefore, one of the goals of the presented software was to aggregate important meshQualityParameters in one place. 
